#summary List of games and status with Mupen64Plus

== Games known to work well with the latest SVN of !Mupen64Plus (best video plugin) ==

This list is a work in progress, and is not complete nor up-to-date -- feel free to contact a developer about adding to this list.

|| *Game name*                 || *Tips (best plug-in, suggested settings)* ||
|| 40 Winks                    || Glide64 ||
|| 1080 Snowboarding           || Glide64 ||
|| Aerogauge                   || - ||
|| Aerofighter's Assault       || !RiceVideo or glN64 ||
|| Airboarders 64              || - ||
|| Army Men - Sarge's Heroes 2 || glN64 ||
|| Asteroids Hyper 64          || - ||
|| Automobili Lamborghini      || glN64 ||
|| Banjo-Kazooie               || !RiceVideo or Glide64 ||
|| Batman Beyond               || glN64 ||
|| Bomberman 64                || various graphical glitches ||
|| Charlie Blast's Territory   || glN64 ||
|| GoldenEye      || - ||
|| Iggy's Reckin' Balls        || !RiceVideo, Expansion Pack Disabled (Hangs at certain part of game) ||
|| Kirby 64                    || Glide64 ||
|| Mario Kart 64               || - ||
|| Mortal Kombat 4             || Glide64) - Enable Sound Sync, Enable Compiled Jump, Disable Expansion Pack ||
|| Puyo Puyo 4: Puyo Puyo Party|| !RiceVideo (minor artifacts), Glide64 (disable compiled jump) requires lots of CPU power || 
|| Super Mario 64              || - ||
|| Super Bowling 64            || !RiceVideo ||
|| Star Fox 64                 || !RiceVideo or Glide64 ||
|| Top Gear Rally              || - ||

== Games that run with some problems ==
|| *Game name*                 || *Explaination* ||
|| Banjo-Tooie                 ||!RiceVideo. Dynarec off. Impossible to go beyond level 2 for now because a button can't be pressed. ||
|| Jet Force Gemini            || GlN64; The bug doors don't turn green when the enemies die, the crosshair for the tri rocket and guided missile launcher don't show, Vela's boss has problems, the screen is all black unless settings are fiddled with ||
|| Paper Mario                 || Flickering ||
|| Rayman 2 - The great escape   || Glide64. Some collision problems (vital characters/items going through wall/floor), can be worked around by saving and trying repeatedly and/or changing view angle ||
|| Zelda - Majora's Mask       || problems with cutscene ||

== Known stability problems in games ==

|| *Game name*                 || *What happens* || *Tested with version* ||
|| Armorines - Project SWARM   || hangs with any video plugin || 1.3-RC1-bin-64 || 
|| Battle Tanx    || hangs with any video plugin || 1.3-RC1-bin-64 ||
|| Blast Corps    || loads then crashes very fast || 1.3.-RC1-bin-32 ||
|| Donkey Kong 64 || can't get past into || 1.4, svn ||
|| Mystical Ninja || very laggy || - ||
|| Perfect Dark   || the game seems to have problems with being able to enter the next stage once the current one is complete || ? ||
|| Yoshi's Story || hangs with glide64 before entering gameplay || plug-svn-__r93__ ||

== Known visual artifacts in games ==

*Aidyn Chronicles*
 * _version:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64
 * _!RiceVideo:_ blue flashes
 * _glN64:_  missing all polygons
 * _Glide64:_ crash, distorted letters

*Army Men - Air Combat*
 * _version:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64
 * _!RiceVideo:_ triangles flash black
 * _glN64:_  gaps in-between quads
 * _Glide64:_ distorted letters

*Army Men - Sarge's Heroes*
 * _version:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64
 * _!RiceVideo:_ triangles flash blue
 * _glN64:_  missing all polygons
 * _Glide64:_ distorted letters

*Army Men - Sarge's Heroes 2*
 * _version:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64
 * _!RiceVideo:_ Model polygons flashing black
 * _Glide64:_ distorted letters

*Automobili Lamborghini*
 * _version:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64
 * _!RiceVideo:_ Model polygons flashing blue
 * _Glide64:_ vertical gaps in flag (minor)

*Banjo-Kazooie*
 * _version:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64
 * _glN64:_  Screen size wrong; washed-out textures

*Banjo-Tooie*
 * _version:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64
 * _glN64:_  texture color incorrect
 * _Glide64:_ distorted letters.  world is white.

*Batman Beyond*
 * _version:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64
 * _!RiceVideo:_ Model polygons flashing black
 * _Glide64:_ distorted letters

*Mario Kart 64*
 CRC: 3e5055b6 2e92da52
 MD5: 7D54D888964A3B0D058EB80886C44C88

 || _ver:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64 || _plugins:_ rice-1.2-dev ||
 * In high resolutions (tested with 1600x1200) and only in fullscreen mode the whole screen flashes + overdrawing artefacts. Sometimes there is a small centered picture-in-picture of the game, so the game runs as a small picture in the middle of the screen and the rest of the screen just flashes.
 * After every race the screen is split into 4 parts, where 2 of them shows the scores. The background color should here be black, but instead it's white most of the time and randomly flashes to black. Depending on the map there are other colors too.

*Mario Party*
 CRC: 2829657e a0621877
 MD5: 8BC2712139FBF0C56C8EA835802C52DC

 || _ver:_ mupen64-amd64-1.2-bin-64  || _plugins:_ glN64 + Jttl ||
 * After a (complete) game is finished, the sound starts to stutter extremly loud. It's like there is garbage data in die audio buffer and played over and over again. You have to restart the game to get it back to normal.

 || _ver:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64 || _plugins:_ glN64-0.4.1 ||
 * runs slower as with previous version (mupen64-amd64-1.2-bin-64 + glN64)
 * artifacts in mini games
 * sometimes characters and objects are flashing.
 * sometimes characters and objects are rendered multiple times. It's like the next motion frame gets drawn without erasing the previous one from the background. e.g. if a character moves from left to right you get a line of this character in different stages (overdrawing?).
 * while the screen is split up into 2 frames the second (either the right or the lower one) frame flashes.

 || _ver:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64 || _plugins:_ rice-1.2-dev ||
 * artefacts in mini games
 * sometimes characters and objects are invisible

*Mario Tennis*
 CRC: 839f3ad5 406d15fa
 MD5: FFF9B3E22ABB9B60215DAFB13AD5A4DE

 || _ver:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64 || _plugins:_ rice-1.2-dev ||
 * The emulator crashes...
 * at the end of the intro (but you can skip the intro).
 * when you've started a game and hit the ball the first time.

 || _ver_: mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64 || _pluigns:_ glN64-0.4.1 ||
 * Countless clipping artefacts.
 * Many black boxes around objects (render to texture not working?)
 * The replays are almost completly black, but skipable.

*MISCHIEF MAKERS*
 CRC: 418bda98 248a0f58
 MD5: EB3B078A74D4DC827E1E79791004DFBB

 || _ver:_ mupen64plus-1.3-RC1-bin-64 || _plugins:_ rice-1.2-dev AND glN64-0.4.1 ||
 * In Level 4-1 Astair's Lair you have to run away from a rolling stone. The sad thing is that's invisible. There are most likely more objects in the game which are invisible because of this bug but I only noticed this one so far.
 * The questions in the mathfun event in 3-10 are black and not possible to see.
 * In world 4, the screen is supposed to be dark, with only the center having a circle of light visible. This was done to simulate a dark cave with a flashlight shining on Marina. So far no plugin renders this correctly. Either the dark and light are swapped, or the screen is all light and no dark, but the correct "flashlight affect" is not present.
 * The message "two events of type 8 in queue" appears countless times in the console
 * Game lags (on stages 2-3, 2-8, the dash events in 3-10, and the hurdle event in 3-10, during some on screen explosions in worlds 3 and 5)
 * There are some outline issues, like in the intro, and in world 4 some plugins render a blue outline in the background.
 * in world 2, many of the textures of the grayish brown walls are completely off. gln64 1.1.1 renders these textures 100% accurate.

*Puyo Puyo 4: Puyo Puyo Party*
 CRC: 1798805084 12582912
 MD5: 22B86AB3F320A607899A0516C90A24D0

 || _ver:_ mupen64plug-svn-__r93__ || _plugins:_ rice-1.3-dev AND glN64-0.4.1 AND glide64 ||
 * glN64: UCode is not detected. Selecting the proper UCode results in a freeze.
 * Glide64: Crashes after intro video (before entry into menu)
 * Rice's Video: Runs mostly bug free with very minor artifacts on occasion. Requires a lot of CPU power.

*San Francisco Rush*
 * textures are not aligned correctly

*Yoshi's Story*
 CRC: 3612688085 16777216
 MD5: D3436319D51DF291BA71A2E512DDB7B5

 || _ver:_ mupen64plug-svn-__r93__ || _plugins:_ rice-1.3-dev AND glN64-0.4.1 AND glide64 ||
 * The Nintendo sprite at the beginning does not show up with Rice's Video or Glide64
 * The selection screens do not show up properly in Rice Video (White boxes over some sprites) or Glide64 (full screen is a varying shade of purple)
 * Rice Video: Many sprites in-game show up white.
 * glN64: No background objects are drawn in-game, causing the game to redraw over itself each frame
 * glide64: Crashes before entering gameplay.