#summary Supported use cases for Autoconfiguration with Mupen64Plus-Input-SDL plugin

== Use Cases ==

 * *Use case #1 scenario*: First-time user of !Mupen64Plus, has no configuration file.
 * *Desired Behavior*:
   * Automatically detect and configure any supported joysticks, assigning them in sequence to controllers.
   * Skip any unsupported joysticks without leaving unconfigured controllers.
   * If no SDL joysticks are found, configure the keyboard/mouse.
   * Fill in (blank) settings for all 4 controllers (for GUI front-ends)
 * *How to configure*: Automatic.
   * If no configuration is found for a controller (or version is out of date), it will automatically be set to mode 2 (fully automatic), and saved.

 * *Use case #2 scenario*: User changes controllers often (configuration file is present)
 * *Desired Behavior*:
   * Automatically detect and configure any joysticks plugged in
   * Skip any unsupported joysticks without leaving unconfigured controllers.
   * If no SDL joysticks are found, configure the keyboard/mouse.
   * Don't stick to old input settings in configuration file when different joysticks are present
   * User should be able to modify the auto-configured settings (edit !InputAutoConfig.ini)
 * *How to configure*: Automatic
   * User should set all controllers to mode 2 (fully auto) in this scenario, and edit his controller preferences in the !InputAutoConfig.ini file.

 * *Use case #3 scenario*: User switches between keyboard and joystick
 * *Desired Behavior*:
   * If joystick is plugged in, then set up according to configuration file (if it matches), or auto-config
   * If no SDL joysticks are found, configure the keyboard/mouse.
 * *How to configure*: 
   * User should set all controllers to mode 2 (fully auto) in this scenario, and edit his controller preferences in the !InputAutoConfig.ini file.

 * *Use case #4 scenario*: Developer wants to create a specific input configuration for testing purposes: no controllers, only a controller in port 2, etc.
 * *How to configure*: Set all controller *`mode`* parameters to 0, set other configuration parameters as necessary.

== Design Changes ==
 * changes relative to Hg rev 173:725bc6d288ae
 * Changes to `[Input-SDL-Control*]` sections
   * *`version`* changes from 1 to 2
   * Add parameter *`mode`*: 0 = Fully Manual, 1 = Automatic with named SDL device, 2 = Fully Automatic
   * For the *`device`* parameter, remove the `-2` option (keyboard input should automatically work for any N64 controller which maps keys), and change the semantic of the `-1` option to mean "No SDL joystick" instead of "Auto-config".  For modes 1 and 2, this parameter will be set by the input plugin.  The user can only set this parameter for mode 0.
   * For the *`name`* parameter: Similar to previous usage, but mode-dependent: For mode 0, name of joystick/keyboard which was last used (set by plugin). For mode 1, name of desired joystick/keyboard to use for this controller (set by user).  For mode 2, ignored.